Topic: urticaria

PUBMED ABSTRACTS:

1. Ewha Med J. 2026 Mar 13. doi: 10.12771/emj.2026.01207. Online ahead of print.

Nociceptive pain as a clinical presentation of chronic urticaria and 
disappearance with immunoglobulin/histamine complex therapy: a case report.

Kim HS(1)(2), Kim DH(3), Nam Y(3), Sohn JE(3), Noh G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Natural Science, Dong-A 
University, Busan, Korea.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, The Graduate School of Dong-A University, 
Busan, Korea.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Cheju Halla General Hospital, Jeju, Korea.
(4)Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Cheju Halla General Hospital, 
Jeju, Korea.

Itching is a representative manifestation of urticaria. However, under certain 
conditions, urticaria may be characterized by nociceptive sensations, such as 
stinging or tingling, either instead of or in addition to itching. Three 
patients with chronic urticaria (CU) who experienced nociceptive pain 
accompanied by itching were identified and treated with immunoglobulin/histamine 
complex (IHC) therapy. Nociceptive pain resolved along with improvement in CU 
symptoms after 8 injections of IHC in the first patient and after 4 injections 
in the second and third patients. Nociceptive pain may present as a symptom of 
CU. The clinical characteristics of the transition from itching to nociceptive 
pain, together with the observed outcomes of IHC therapy, appear to support the 
intensity theory explaining this shift, which may be mediated by histamine. 
Further clinical and basic immunological studies are warranted to clarify the 
underlying mechanisms.

DOI: 10.12771/emj.2026.01207
PMID: 41821224


2. Dermatol Ther (Heidelb). 2026 Mar 12. doi: 10.1007/s13555-026-01678-1. Online 
ahead of print.

Podcast: Adherence to Injectables.

Sánchez J(1).

Author information:
(1)Group of Clinical and Immunological Research, "Alma Mater de Antioquia" 
Hospital, University of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia. jotamsc@yahoo.com.

Patients with chronic illnesses, especially those with autoimmune conditions 
such as rheumatoid arthritis, chronic urticaria, Crohn's disease, psoriasis, and 
diabetes, rely on injectable therapies for disease management. However, it is 
well established that patients with chronic illnesses often have poor adherence 
to therapy, with adherence rates reported to be approximately 50%. This leads to 
issues with gauging treatment efficacy, potentially leading to worsening of 
their disease, thus more appointments with healthcare professionals (HCPs), and 
consequently a higher cost burden placed on healthcare systems. Hence, there is 
an unmet need to educate HCPs on the topic of supporting patients to optimize 
the use of injectable therapies. In this podcast, Professor Jorge Sánchez of the 
University of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia, brings awareness to some of the key 
causes of non-adherence to injectable therapy, explains how to identify patients 
who are at high risk for non-adherence, and discusses how issues with the use of 
injectables can be managed or improved to increase adherence. The podcast also 
highlights some patient-focused means of improving treatment adherence, such as 
providing patient counseling, education, and practice administration sessions to 
help with patient confidence and empowerment. In conclusion, there is a need for 
HCPs to identify and improve poor adherence to injectable therapies among 
patients with chronic illnesses. Podcast video (MP4 157107 KB).

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s13555-026-01678-1
PMID: 41820745

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: Professor 
Sánchez has been an advisor and speaker for Novartis AG; Sanofi SA; Glaxon; 
AstraZeneca PLC; Becton Dickinson and Company; Foundation for Advanced Education 
in the Sciences, Inc; Galderma SA; Nettle Pharma; and Thermo Fisher Scientific 
Inc. Ethical Approval: This article is based on previously conducted studies and 
does not contain any new studies with human participants or animals performed by 
the author.


3. Contact Dermatitis. 2026 Mar 12. doi: 10.1111/cod.70137. Online ahead of
print.

Occupational Contact Urticaria, Protein Contact Dermatitis and Concomitant 
Airway Diseases in the Finnish Register of Occupational Diseases in 2005-2020: 
Main Causes and Occupations at Risk.

Ojanen V(1), Airaksinen L(2), Suojalehto H(2), Koskela K(1), Pesonen M(2).

Author information:
(1)Occupational Medicine, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Tampere, 
Finland.
(2)Occupational Medicine, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, 
Finland.

BACKGROUND: Occupational contact urticaria (OCU) and protein contact dermatitis 
(PCD) may co-exist with occupational asthma (OA) and occupational rhinitis (OR) 
and be caused by the same allergen. These diseases are commonly caused by 
immediate (immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated) allergic sensitisation. Limited data 
exist on the prevalence and causes of concomitant occupational skin and airway 
diseases (CSAD).
OBJECTIVES: To analyse data from the Finnish Register of Occupational Diseases 
(FROD) for prevalence, main causes, and at-risk occupations for concomitant 
occupational skin and airway diseases.
METHODS: Data on recognised cases of OCU, PCD, OA and OR in the years 2005-2020 
(n = 2413) were retrieved from FROD and analysed.
RESULTS: Among OCU/PCD cases, 27% had OA, OR, or both. Conversely, 10% of OA 
cases and 14% of OR cases had OCU/PCD. Concomitant diseases were most common in 
farming, animal care, and food-related jobs. Shared causative exposures were 
identified in 89% of cases, with cow dander, wheat flour, and chemicals being 
the most frequent.
CONCLUSIONS: Concomitant occupational skin and airway diseases caused by shared 
work-related allergens are relatively common. When evaluating patients with 
occupational immediate allergy, both skin and airway symptoms should be 
considered.

© 2026 The Author(s). Contact Dermatitis published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.70137
PMID: 41819612