Title: Allergic contact dermatitis

Summary:
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a form of contact dermatitis that is the manifestation of a type IV hypersensitivity (delayed hypersensitivity) response caused by contact with a substance; the other type being irritant contact dermatitis (ICD). It differs from classical allergic reactions, which are type I hypersensitivity reactions. 
Although less common than ICD, ACD is accepted to be the most prevalent form of immunotoxicity found in humans. By its hypersensitive nature, this form of contact dermatitis is atypical within the population. The mechanisms by which these reactions occur are complex, with many levels of fine control. Their immunology centres on the interaction of immunoregulatory cytokines and discrete subpopulations of T lymphocytes.



Main Section Extract:
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a form of contact dermatitis that is the manifestation of a type IV hypersensitivity (delayed hypersensitivity) response caused by contact with a substance; the other type being irritant contact dermatitis (ICD). It differs from classical allergic reactions, which are type I hypersensitivity reactions. 
Although less common than ICD, ACD is accepted to be the most prevalent form of immunotoxicity found in humans. By its hypersensitive nature, this form of contact dermatitis is atypical within the population. The mechanisms by which these reactions occur are complex, with many levels of fine control. Their immunology centres on the interaction of immunoregulatory cytokines and discrete subpopulations of T lymphocytes.


== Signs and symptoms ==
The symptoms of allergic contact dermatitis are very similar to those caused by irritant contact dermatitis, which makes the first even harder to diagnose. The first sign of allergic contact dermatitis is the presence of a rash or skin lesion at the site of exposure. Depending on the type of allergen causing it, the rash can ooze, drain, or crust, and it can become raw, scaled, or thickened. Also, it is possible that the skin lesion does not take the form of a rash, but it may include papules, blisters, vesicles, or even a simple red area. The main difference between the rash caused by allergic contact dermatitis and the one caused by irritant contact dermatitis is that the latter tends to be confined to the area where the trigger touched the skin, whereas in allergic contact dermatitis, the rash is more likely to be more widespread on the skin. Another characteristic of the allergic contact dermatitis rash is that it usually appears after a day or two after exposure to the allergen, unlike irritant contact dermatitis that appears immediately after the contact with the trigger.
Other symptoms may include itching, skin redness or inflammation, localized swelling, and the area may become more